Add Synology instructions (#1813)
nextcloud/all-in-one: readme.md

⚠️ **Please note:** Almost all commands in this project's documentation use `sudo docker ...`. Since `sudo` is not available on Windows, you simply remove `sudo` from the commands and they should work.  

> ### Synology DSM Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to run AIO on Synology DSM
```

On Synology, there are two things different in comparison to Linux: instead of using `--volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro`, you need to use `--volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro` to run it. You also need to add `-e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock"`to the startup command. Apart from that it should work and behave the same like on Linux. Obviously the Synology Docker GUI will not work with that so you will need to either use SSH or create a user-defined script task in the task scheduler as the user 'root' in order to run the command.

Also, you may be interested in adjusting Nextcloud's Datadir to store the files on the host system. See [this documentation](https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-change-the-default-location-of-nextclouds-datadir) on how to do it.

#### Note about Synology's firewall

> The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers (in my case 2 bridges), your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:
> 
> ![Screenshot 2023-01-19 at 14 13 48](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213677995-71a9f364-e5d2-49e5-831e-4579f217c95c.png)
> 
> If you have the NAS setup on your local network (which is most often the case) you will need to setup the Synology DNS to be able to access Nextcloud from your network via its domain. Also don't forget to add the new DNS to your DHCP server and your fixed IP settings:
>  
> ![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 12 13 44](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213683295-0b39a2bd-7a26-414c-a408-127dd4f07826.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand</summary>

The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers (in my case 2 bridges), your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:

![Screenshot 2023-01-19 at 14 13 48](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213677995-71a9f364-e5d2-49e5-831e-4579f217c95c.png)

If you have the NAS setup on your local network (which is most often the case) you will need to setup the Synology DNS to be able to access Nextcloud from your network via its domain. Also don't forget to add the new DNS to your DHCP server and your fixed IP settings:
 
![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 12 13 44](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213683295-0b39a2bd-7a26-414c-a408-127dd4f07826.png)
</details>
```

⚠️ **Please note:** Almost all commands in this project's documentation use `sudo docker ...`. Since `sudo` is not available on Windows, you simply remove `sudo` from the commands and they should work.  

### Synology DSM Setup
On Synology, there are two things different in comparison to Linux: instead of using `--volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro`, you need to use `--volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro` to run it. You also need to add `-e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock"`to the startup command. Apart from that it should work and behave the same like on Linux. Obviously the Synology Docker GUI will not work with that so you will need to either use SSH or create a user-defined script task in the task scheduler as the user 'root' in order to run the command.

Also, you may be interested in adjusting Nextcloud's Datadir to store the files on the host system. See [this documentation](https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-change-the-default-location-of-nextclouds-datadir) on how to do it.

> 
>      
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Note about Synology's firewall
```

> #### Note about Synology's firewall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll also need to adjust Synology's firewall, see below:
```

<summary>Click here to expand</summary>

> The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers (in my case 2 bridges), your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers, your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:
```

> - The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers (in my case 2 bridges), your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:
> 
> ![Screenshot 2023-01-19 at 14 13 48](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213677995-71a9f364-e5d2-49e5-831e-4579f217c95c.png)
>     
>     
>  
>  - If you have the NAS setup on your local network (which is most often the case) you will need to setup the Synology DNS to be able to access Nextcloud from your network via its domain. Also don't forget to add the new DNS to your DHCP server and your fixed IP settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers (in my case 2 bridges), your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:

![Screenshot 2023-01-19 at 14 13 48](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213677995-71a9f364-e5d2-49e5-831e-4579f217c95c.png)

If you have the NAS setup on your local network (which is most often the case) you will need to setup the Synology DNS to be able to access Nextcloud from your network via its domain. Also don't forget to add the new DNS to your DHCP server and your fixed IP settings:
```

 
![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 12 13 44](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213683295-0b39a2bd-7a26-414c-a408-127dd4f07826.png)

> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

⚠️ **Please note:** Almost all commands in this project's documentation use `sudo docker ...`. Since `sudo` is not available on Windows, you simply remove `sudo` from the commands and they should work.  

### Synology DSM Setup

> For a AIO setup in Docker on a Synology NAS, there are a few adjustments necessary to make it run well. See below.
>     
>     
> The main issue is that installing AIO through the **Synology Docker GUI doesn't work**, so you need to either use SSH or create a user-defined script task in the task scheduler as the user 'root' and run it.
> 
> The docker run command without reverse proxy. For reverse proxy situation see https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/blob/main/reverse-proxy.md
> ```
> sudo docker run \
> --sig-proxy=false \
> --name nextcloud-aio-mastercontainer \
> --restart always \
> --publish 80:80 \
> --publish 8080:8080 \
> --publish 8443:8443 \
> --volume nextcloud_aio_mastercontainer:/mnt/docker-aio-config \
> --volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
> -e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/volume1/docker/nextcloud/data" \
> -e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock" \
> nextcloud/all-in-one:latest 
> ```

Reviewer: Lets do it like this:
```suggestion
On Synology, there are two things different in comparison to Linux: instead of using `--volume /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro`, you need to use `--volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro` to run it. You also need to add `-e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock"`to the startup command. Apart from that it should work and behave the same like on Linux. Obviously the Synology Docker GUI will not work with that so you will need to either use SSH or create a user-defined script task in the task scheduler as the user 'root'

Also, you may be interested in adjusting Nextcloud's Datadir to store the files on the host system. See [this documentation](https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-change-the-default-location-of-nextclouds-datadir) on how to do it.
```

 <details>
 <summary>Setup with reverse proxy </summary>

The compose script with reverse proxy which points to `localhost` at port 11000 with **HTTP** internally

```
sudo docker run \
--sig-proxy=false \
--name nextcloud-aio-mastercontainer \
--restart always \
--publish 8080:8080 \
-e APACHE_PORT=11000 \
-e APACHE_IP_BINDING=127.0.0.1 \
--volume nextcloud_aio_mastercontainer:/mnt/docker-aio-config \
--volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
-e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/volume1/docker/nextcloud/data" \
-e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock" \
nextcloud/all-in-one:latest
```

![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 11 54 41](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213679766-96c44fd8-12e7-4f81-9227-48476c58aaef.jpg)
![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 11 55 06](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213680608-0e11c6dc-0fa2-4961-9f55-4f7f8c977e69.jpg)

> For backups, enter `/volume1/docker/nextcloud/backup` as location in the AIO interface

Reviewer: Not needed anymore with https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/pull/1813/commits/0c469149ea14a16db62623b9e96a978cd75937b6

⚠️ **Please note:** Almost all commands in this project's documentation use `sudo docker ...`. Since `sudo` is not available on Windows, you simply remove `sudo` from the commands and they should work.  

### Synology DSM Setup

> <details>
>     <summary>For a AIO setup in Docker on a Synology NAS, there are a few adjustments necessary to make it run well, especially when running the integrated reverse proxy or firewall.</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a AIO setup in Docker on a Synology NAS, there are a few adjustments necessary to make it run well. See below.
```

> The main issue is that installing AIO through the **Docker GUI doesn't work**, so you need to either use SSH or create a user-defined script task in the task scheduler as the user 'root' and run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main issue is that installing AIO through the **Synology Docker GUI doesn't work**, so you need to either use SSH or create a user-defined script task in the task scheduler as the user 'root' and run it.
```

> Before you start make sure to create two folders on you NAS `/volume1/docker/nextcloud/data` `/volume1/docker/nextcloud/backup`

Reviewer: That should not be necessary as the folders should get created automatically if they are not present.

```suggestion
```

> The compose script without reverse proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The docker run command without reverse proxy. For reverse proxy situation see https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/blob/main/reverse-proxy.md
```

```
sudo docker run \
--sig-proxy=false \
--name nextcloud-aio-mastercontainer \
--restart always \
--publish 80:80 \
--publish 8080:8080 \
--publish 8443:8443 \
--volume nextcloud_aio_mastercontainer:/mnt/docker-aio-config \
--volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \

> -e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/volume1/docker/nextcloud/data" \

Reviewer: I'd say lets not add this here as it is an optional thing. Howevwer lets link to the correct section below the command (like we did with the windows install)

```suggestion
```

Author: Ok I didn't know that this was optional.

But maybe add a note to let people know that there is more on Synology further below?

Reviewer: See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/pull/1813/files#r1085140153

-e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock" \
nextcloud/all-in-one:latest 
```

>  <details>
>  <summary>Setup with reverse proxy </summary>
> 
> The compose script with reverse proxy which points to `localhost` at port 11000 with **HTTP** internally
> 
> ```
> sudo docker run \
> --sig-proxy=false \
> --name nextcloud-aio-mastercontainer \
> --restart always \
> --publish 8080:8080 \
> -e APACHE_PORT=11000 \
> -e APACHE_IP_BINDING=127.0.0.1 \
> --volume nextcloud_aio_mastercontainer:/mnt/docker-aio-config \
> --volume /volume1/docker/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
> -e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/volume1/docker/nextcloud/data" \
> -e DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="/volume1/docker/docker.sock" \
> nextcloud/all-in-one:latest
> ```
> 
> ![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 11 54 41](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213679766-96c44fd8-12e7-4f81-9227-48476c58aaef.jpg)
> ![Screenshot 2023-01-20 at 11 55 06](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213680608-0e11c6dc-0fa2-4961-9f55-4f7f8c977e69.jpg)

Reviewer: Lets move this to https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/blob/main/reverse-proxy.md

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Done with https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/pull/1813/commits/1e933e0b053991d0c8aa2532c6f90a20570d0840

> - The standard backup directory doesn't work, but you can just point it to the previously created folder `/volume1/docker/nextcloud/backup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For backups, enter `/volume1/docker/nextcloud/backup` as location in the AIO interface
```

> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- The Synology DSM is vulnerable to attacks with it's open ports and login interfaces, which is why a firewall setup is always recommended. If a firewall is activated it is necessary to have exceptions for ports 80,443, the subnet of the docker bridge which includes the nextcloud containers (in my case 2 bridges), your public static IP (if you don't use DDNS) and if applicable your NC-Talk ports 3478 TCP+UDP:

![Screenshot 2023-01-19 at 14 13 48](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70434961/213677995-71a9f364-e5d2-49e5-831e-4579f217c95c.png)
    
    

> - If you decide to run the commands through the task scheduler and want to run the command to solve the phone region error you need to remove the `-it` from it:
> 
>  `sudo docker exec --user www-data nextcloud-aio-nextcloud php occ config:system:set default_phone_region --value="yourvalue" `

Reviewer: Lets adjust this in the general docs directly and remove the -it from the command here: https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-resolve-security--setup-warnings-displays-the-missing-default-phone-region-after-initial-install

```suggestion
```

- An example for Linux is `-e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/mnt/ncdata"`.
- On macOS it might be `-e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/var/nextcloud-data"`

> - For Synology it may be `-e NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/volume1/docker/nextcloud/data"`. 

Reviewer: Lets keep this

Reviewer: done with https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/pull/1813/commits/fb7f61daff23ef41c5c9cdb9d5ce5f41fce6ec4a

1. Open the cronjob with `sudo crontab -u root -e` (and choose your editor of choice if not already done. I'd recommend nano). 
1. Add the following new line to the crontab if not already present: `0 5 * * * /root/automatic-updates.sh` which will run the script at 05:00 each day. 
1. save and close the crontab (when using nano are the shortcuts for this `Ctrl + o` -> `Enter` and close the editor with `Ctrl + x`).

> 
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 

Reviewer: Can you remove that change again?
```suggestion
```
